>sdd_bj07 17142268
Nucleosomes form the fundamental building blocks of chromatin. Subtle modifications of the constituent histone tails mediate chromatin stability and regulate gene expression. For this reason, it is important to understand structural dynamics of nucleosomes at atomic levels. We report a novel multiscale model of the fundamental chromatin unit, a nucleosome, using a simplified model for rapid discrete molecular dynamics simulations and an all-atom model for detailed structural investigation. Using a simplified structural model, we perform equilibrium simulations of a single nucleosome at various temperatures. We further reconstruct all-atom nucleosome structures from simulation trajectories. We find that histone tails bind to nucleosomal DNA via strong salt-bridge interactions over a wide range of temperatures, suggesting a mechanism of chromatin structural organization whereby histone tails regulate inter- and intranucleosomal assemblies via binding with nucleosomal DNA. We identify specific regions of the histone core H2A/H2B-H4/H3-H3/H4-H2B/H2A, termed "cold sites", which retain a significant fraction of contacts with adjoining residues throughout the simulation, indicating their functional role in nucleosome organization. Cold sites are clustered around H3-H3, H2A-H4 and H4-H2A interhistone interfaces, indicating the necessity of these contacts for nucleosome stability. Essential dynamics analysis of simulation trajectories shows that bending across the H3-H3 is a prominent mode of intranucleosomal dynamics. We postulate that effects of salts on mononucleosomes can be modeled in discrete molecular dynamics by modulating histone-DNA interaction potentials. Local fluctuations in nucleosomal DNA vary significantly along the DNA sequence, suggesting that only a fraction of histone-DNA contacts make strong interactions dominating mononucleosomal dynamics. Our findings suggest that histone tails have a direct functional role in stabilizing higher-order chromatin structure, mediated by salt-bridge interactions with adjacent DNA.
>ydd_nm07 17538626
Mutagenesis is a central tool of molecular biology, genetics and biotechnology. To what extent mutations affect the thermodynamic stability (DeltaDeltaG) and structure of a protein is often vital for designing experiments. Estimation of protein stabilities remains a paramount challenge in computational molecular biology and has several bottlenecks. With recent advances in computational biology, accurate DeltaDeltaG calculations can be achieved by molecular dynamic simulations1, but such calculations are computationally costly (that is, efficiency is low). Modern large-scale DeltaDeltaG prediction methods use heuristic algorithms with effective force fields and empirical parameters to estimate the stability changes caused by mutations in agreement with experimental data2, 3, 4, 5. There are, however, two considerable drawbacks pertinent to the heuristic methods. First, most of these prediction methods rely on parameter training using available experimental DeltaDeltaG data. Such training is usually biased toward mutations that feature large-to-small residue substitutions, such as alanine-scanning experiments (that is, poor transferability). Second, protein backbone flexibility, which is crucial for resolving atomic clashes and backbone strains in mutant proteins, is not considered in these methods, thereby reducing accuracy and limiting the application of heuristic methods (that is, limited applicability).
